docs/cosmos.md, before:

# Cosmos DB in AKS secure baseline

Prerequisites:

- Follow setup instructions in [README.md](../README.md) to create an environment

## Create cosmos

```bash

export ASB_IMDB_NAME="${ASB_TEAM_NAME}-cosmos"
export ASB_IMDB_DB="imdb"
export ASB_IMDB_COL="movies"
export ASB_IMDB_RW_KEY="az cosmosdb keys list -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query primaryMasterKey -o tsv"

# create cosmos
export ASB_COSMOS_ID=$(az cosmosdb create -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME --query id -o tsv)
az cosmosdb sql database create -a $ASB_IMDB_NAME -n $ASB_IMDB_DB -g $ASB_RG_CORE --throughput 1000
az cosmosdb sql container create -p /partitionKey -g $ASB_RG_CORE -a $ASB_IMDB_NAME -d $ASB_IMDB_DB -n $ASB_IMDB_COL

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Load data into cosmos

```bash

# load data into cosmos
docker run -it --rm retaildevcrew/imdb-import $ASB_IMDB_NAME $(eval $ASB_IMDB_RW_KEY) $ASB_IMDB_DB $ASB_IMDB_COL

```

## Setup private connection

```bash

# subnet for AKS cluster nodes
export ASB_NODES_SUBNET_ID=$(az deployment group show -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n cluster-${ASB_TEAM_NAME} --query properties.outputs.vnetNodePoolSubnetResourceId.value -o tsv)

# create private endpoint
az network private-endpoint create \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-endpoint" \
  --connection-name "nodepools-to-cosmos-connection" \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --subnet $ASB_NODES_SUBNET_ID \
  --private-connection-resource-id $ASB_COSMOS_ID \
  --group-id "Sql"

# create private dns zone
# recommended zone names: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns#azure-services-dns-zone-configuration
export ASB_COSMOS_ZONE="privatelink.documents.azure.com"
az network private-dns zone create --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE --name $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE

# create vnet link between private zone and spoke vnet
az network private-dns link vnet create \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --zone-name  $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-link" \
  --virtual-network $ASB_SPOKE_VNET_ID \
  --registration-enabled false

# create a DNS zone group to add cosmos dns records to private dns zone
az network private-endpoint dns-zone-group create \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --endpoint-name "nodepools-to-cosmos-endpoint" \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-zone-group" \
  --private-dns-zone $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE \
  --zone-name $ASB_TEAM_NAME

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Add app secrets to key vault

```bash

# give logged in user access to key vault
az keyvault set-policy --secret-permissions set --object-id $(az ad signed-in-user show --query objectId -o tsv) -n $ASB_KV_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE

# set app secrets
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosDatabase" --value $ASB_IMDB_DB
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosCollection" --value $ASB_IMDB_COL
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosKey" \
  --value $(az cosmosdb keys list -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query primaryMasterKey -o tsv)
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosUrl" --value "https://${ASB_IMDB_NAME}.documents.azure.com:443/"

```

## Create managed identity for app

```bash

# create managed identity for ngsa-app
export ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME="${ASB_TEAM_NAME}-ngsa-id"

export ASB_NGSA_MI_RESOURCE_ID=$(az identity create -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME --query "id" -o tsv)

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## AAD pod identity setup for app

```bash

# allow cluster to manage app identity for aad pod identity
export ASB_AKS_IDENTITY_ID=$(az aks show -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_AKS_NAME --query "identityProfile.kubeletidentity.objectId" -o tsv)
az role assignment create --role "Managed Identity Operator" --assignee $ASB_AKS_IDENTITY_ID --scope $ASB_NGSA_MI_RESOURCE_ID

# give app identity read access to secrets in keyvault
export ASB_NGSA_MI_PRINCIPAL_ID=$(az identity show -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query "principalId" -o tsv)
az keyvault set-policy -n $ASB_KV_NAME --object-id $ASB_NGSA_MI_PRINCIPAL_ID --secret-permissions get

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Create ngsa-cosmos deployment file

```bash

export ASB_NGSA_MI_CLIENT_ID=$(az identity show -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query "clientId" -o tsv)

cat templates/ngsa-cosmos.yaml | envsubst > gitops/ngsa/ngsa-cosmos.yaml

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Push to GitHub

```bash

# check deltas - there should be 1 new file
git status

# push to your branch
git add .
git commit -m "added ngsa-cosmos config"
git push

```

## Validate

```bash

# TODO:
# - add comment on timing of how long pods take to go to running state if it is more than 1 minute
# - add commands to check pods and logs

```

Commit message:

update to docs to add timing on cosmos pod. cleanup yaml file

docs/cosmos.md, after:

# Cosmos DB in AKS secure baseline

Prerequisites:

- Follow setup instructions in [README.md](../README.md) to create an environment

## Create cosmos

```bash

export ASB_IMDB_NAME="${ASB_TEAM_NAME}-cosmos"
export ASB_IMDB_DB="imdb"
export ASB_IMDB_COL="movies"
export ASB_IMDB_RW_KEY="az cosmosdb keys list -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query primaryMasterKey -o tsv"

# create cosmos
export ASB_COSMOS_ID=$(az cosmosdb create -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME --query id -o tsv)
az cosmosdb sql database create -a $ASB_IMDB_NAME -n $ASB_IMDB_DB -g $ASB_RG_CORE --throughput 1000
az cosmosdb sql container create -p /partitionKey -g $ASB_RG_CORE -a $ASB_IMDB_NAME -d $ASB_IMDB_DB -n $ASB_IMDB_COL

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Load data into cosmos

```bash

# load data into cosmos
docker run -it --rm retaildevcrew/imdb-import $ASB_IMDB_NAME $(eval $ASB_IMDB_RW_KEY) $ASB_IMDB_DB $ASB_IMDB_COL

```

## Setup private connection

```bash

# subnet for AKS cluster nodes
export ASB_NODES_SUBNET_ID=$(az deployment group show -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n cluster-${ASB_TEAM_NAME} --query properties.outputs.vnetNodePoolSubnetResourceId.value -o tsv)

# create private endpoint
az network private-endpoint create \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-endpoint" \
  --connection-name "nodepools-to-cosmos-connection" \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --subnet $ASB_NODES_SUBNET_ID \
  --private-connection-resource-id $ASB_COSMOS_ID \
  --group-id "Sql"

# create private dns zone
# recommended zone names: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns#azure-services-dns-zone-configuration
export ASB_COSMOS_ZONE="privatelink.documents.azure.com"
az network private-dns zone create --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE --name $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE

# create vnet link between private zone and spoke vnet
az network private-dns link vnet create \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --zone-name  $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-link" \
  --virtual-network $ASB_SPOKE_VNET_ID \
  --registration-enabled false

# create a DNS zone group to add cosmos dns records to private dns zone
az network private-endpoint dns-zone-group create \
  --resource-group $ASB_RG_CORE \
  --endpoint-name "nodepools-to-cosmos-endpoint" \
  --name "nodepools-to-cosmos-zone-group" \
  --private-dns-zone $ASB_COSMOS_ZONE \
  --zone-name $ASB_TEAM_NAME

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Add app secrets to key vault

```bash

# give logged in user access to key vault
az keyvault set-policy --secret-permissions set --object-id $(az ad signed-in-user show --query objectId -o tsv) -n $ASB_KV_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE

# set app secrets
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosDatabase" --value $ASB_IMDB_DB
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosCollection" --value $ASB_IMDB_COL
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosKey" \
  --value $(az cosmosdb keys list -n $ASB_IMDB_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query primaryMasterKey -o tsv)
az keyvault secret set -o table --vault-name $ASB_KV_NAME --name "CosmosUrl" --value "https://${ASB_IMDB_NAME}.documents.azure.com:443/"

```

## Create managed identity for app

```bash

# create managed identity for ngsa-app
export ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME="${ASB_TEAM_NAME}-ngsa-id"

export ASB_NGSA_MI_RESOURCE_ID=$(az identity create -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME --query "id" -o tsv)

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## AAD pod identity setup for app

```bash

# allow cluster to manage app identity for aad pod identity
export ASB_AKS_IDENTITY_ID=$(az aks show -g $ASB_RG_CORE -n $ASB_AKS_NAME --query "identityProfile.kubeletidentity.objectId" -o tsv)
az role assignment create --role "Managed Identity Operator" --assignee $ASB_AKS_IDENTITY_ID --scope $ASB_NGSA_MI_RESOURCE_ID

# give app identity read access to secrets in keyvault
export ASB_NGSA_MI_PRINCIPAL_ID=$(az identity show -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query "principalId" -o tsv)
az keyvault set-policy -n $ASB_KV_NAME --object-id $ASB_NGSA_MI_PRINCIPAL_ID --secret-permissions get

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Create ngsa-cosmos deployment file

```bash

export ASB_NGSA_MI_CLIENT_ID=$(az identity show -n $ASB_NGSA_MI_NAME -g $ASB_RG_CORE --query "clientId" -o tsv)

cat templates/ngsa-cosmos.yaml | envsubst > gitops/ngsa/ngsa-cosmos.yaml
cat templates/ngsa-pod-identity.yaml | envsubst > gitops/ngsa/ngsa-pod-identity.yaml

# save env vars
./saveenv.sh -y

```

## Push to GitHub

```bash

# check deltas - there should be 1 new file
git status

# push to your branch
git add .
git commit -m "added ngsa-cosmos config"
git push

```

## Validate

```bash

# wait for ngsa-cosmos pods to start
### this can take 8-10 minutes as the cluster sets up pod identity, and secrets via the csi driver
kubectl get pods -n ingress

curl https://${ASB_DOMAIN}/cosmos/version

```
